Feature Selection 
=================

The first two columns contain the subject IDs (subjectid) and the activities (activity) they performed:
WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, and LAYING.

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. 
These time domain signals (prefix 'time' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using 
a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the 
acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (timebodyaccxyz and timegravityaccxyz) using another 
low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (timebodyaccjerkxyz and 
timebodygyrojerkxyz). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (timebodyaccmag, 
timegravityaccmag, timebodyaccjerkmag, timebodygyromag, timebodygyrojerkmag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing freqbodyaccxyz, freqbodyaccjerkxyz, freqbodygyroxyz, 
freqbodybodyaccjerkmag, freqbodybodygyromag, freqbodybodygyrojerkmag. (Note the 'freq' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'xyz' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions. 
Features are normalized and bounded within [-1,1].

timebodyaccxyz
timegravityaccxyz
timebodyaccjerkxyz
timebodygyroxyz
timebodygyrojerkxyz
timebodyaccmag
timegravityaccmag
timebodyaccjerkmag
timebodygyromag
timebodygyrojerkmag
freqbodyaccxyz
freqbodyaccjerkxyz
freqbodygyroxyz
freqbodyaccmag
freqbodybodyaccjerkmag
freqbodybodygyromag
freqbodybodygyrojerkmag


The set of variables that were estimated from these signals as an average for each subject and each activity are: 

mean(): Mean value
std(): Standard deviation

The complete list of variables of each feature vector is available in 'features.txt'.
